# k6 Load Testing

## Performance Testing

Performance testing measures qualiative aspects of a user's experience of a system, such as responsiveness and success rate.

Load testing is not performance testing. Performance testing determines how well a system works as a whole, whilst load testing a type of performance testing that focuses on verifying and validating the performance of an application whilst it has significant volume of tasks to process.

### Frontend Performance Testing

- Frontend end performance testing requires a fully built application deployed on a fully integrated platform
- Testing tools executed on client side and don't give enough insight into backend components

### Backend Performance Testing

- Targets the underlying application servers to verifiy:
    - Scalability: Can the system adjust to steadily increasing levels of demand?
    - Elasticity: Can the system conserve resources during periods of lower demand?
    - Availability: What is the uptime of each of the components in the system?
    - Reliability: Does the system respond consistently in different environmental conditions?
    - Resiliency: Can the system gracefully withstand unexpected events?
    - Latency: How quickly does the system process and respond to requests?

Source: https://github.com/grafana/k6-learn/blob/main/Modules/Introduction%20to%20Performance%20Testing.md

### Why?

- Improve user experience
- Prepare for unexpected demand
- Increased confidence in the application
- Assess and optimize infrastructure

## Running tests

With options including `vu` and `duration`, for example:

`k6 run --vus 10 --duration 30s test-script.js` - will run a 30 second, 10-VU load test

If options are defined in the tests: `k6 run {script}.js`

## Test Structure

```javascript
// 1. init code

export function setup() {
  // 2. setup code
}

export default function (data) {
  // 3. VU code
}

export function teardown(data) {
  // 4. teardown code
}
```

See https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/test-life-cycle/ for more info.

## Think time

The amount of time a script pauses to simulate delays a real user would have using an application. For example, this can be when a user follows a flow through the system or to simulate time to carry out actions such as reading text or filling out a form.

**Best practice**: include dynamic think time instead of hardcoding a value.

See: https://github.com/grafana/k6-learn/blob/main/Modules/Adding%20think%20time%20using%20sleep.md#dynamic-think-time

## Thresholds
Source: https://github.com/grafana/k6-learn/blob/main/Modules/Setting%20test%20criteria%20with%20thresholds.md

Thresholds are used to determine whether a test passes or fails. Types of thresholds are `error rate`, `response time`, and `checks`.

### Error Rate

Use `http_req_failed` metric to set threshold for error rate.

**Best practice**: error rate guidance depending on application:

- Mission critical apps: 1%
- Non critical apps: 5%
- DR testing: 10-15%

### Response Time

Use `http_req_duration` metric to set threshold for response time. Can use `avg`, `min`, `max`, `percentiles`.

**Best practice**: Use 95th percentile response time of 2 seconds as starting point

### Checks

Use checks to make tests fail a certain check error rate is reached. This is the overall error rate of the tests rather than the rates expressed in metrics for failed requests or response time.

## Metric Definitions

Source - <https://betterprogramming.pub/an-introduction-to-k6-an-api-load-testing-tool-132a0d87827d>

### k6

- `vus` — number of active virtual users
- `vus_max` — maximum virtual users allocated for the test
- `iterations` — aggregated number of times the default function is called
- `iteration_duration` — the total time it took to execute the default function
- `dropped_iterations` — number of iterations that couldn’t be started
- `data_received` — amount of data received
- `data_sent` — amount of data sent
- `checks` — rate of successful checks

### http

- `http_reqs` — total requests generated by k6
- `http_req_blocked` — time spent waiting for a free TCP connection before initiating the request
- `http_req_connecting` — time spent establishing a TCP connection
- `http_req_tls_handshaking` — time spent on TLS handshaking
- `http_req_sending` — time spent on data sending
- `http_req_waiting` — time spent waiting for a response from the remote host
- `http_req_receiving` — time spent on data receiving
- `http_req_duration` — total time for the request. It’s calculated based on `http_req_sending + http_req_waiting + http_req_receiving`.

## Testing Profiles

Example testing profiles for load, stress and spike testing.
Source: https://betterprogramming.pub/an-introduction-to-k6-an-api-load-testing-tool-132a0d87827d

### Smoke

Regular load test with minimal load to ensure that scripts don't have errors and the system doesn't throw errors when under minimal load.

```javascript
export const options = {
  vus: 1, // 1 user looping for 1 minute
  duration: '1m',

  thresholds: {
    http_req_duration: ['p(99)<1500'], // 99% of requests must complete below 1.5s
  },
};
```

### Load

Ramp up, maintain for duration and ramp down to assess the current performance of your system: users or requests / per sec.

Consider users at peak hours, and use this for normal/peak hours simulation.

```javascript
export let options = {
  stages: [
    { duration: '5m', target: 100 },
    { duration: '10m', target: 100 },
    { duration: '5m', target: 0 },
  ],
};
```

### Indurance / Soak

Maintain a consistent expected load over a long period. Consider a soak test at 80% of system capacity. For example, if max concurrent users is 100, then soak test with 80 VUs

```javascript
export let options = {
  stages: [
    { duration: '5m', target: 80 },
    { duration: '3h56m', target: 80 },
    { duration: '5m', target: 0 },
  ],
};
```

### Stress

Constant ramping up of VUs over a period of time to assess the availability and stability of the system under heavy load.

```javascript
export let options = {
  stages: [
    { duration: '1m', target: 100 }, //below normal load
    { duration: '5m', target: 100 },
    { duration: '1m', target: 200 }, //normal load
    { duration: '5m', target: 200 },
    { duration: '1m', target: 300 }, //breaking point
    { duration: '5m', target: 300 },
    { duration: '1m', target: 400 }, //beyond breaking point
    { duration: '5m', target: 400 },
    { duration: '5m', target: 0 }, //scale down
  ],
};
```

### Spike / Peak

Overwhelm system with a sudden surge within a short period.

```javascript
export let options = {
  stages: [
    { duration: '10s', target: 100 },
    { duration: '2m', target: 100 },
    { duration: '10s', target: 1000 }, //surge
    { duration: '2m', target: 1000 }, //surge
    { duration: '10s', target: 100 },
    { duration: '2m', target: 100 },
    { duration: '10s', target: 0 },
  ],
};

```

### Breakpoint

Ramp-load load to determine breaking point. In this example, assume during peak hours the system sees an average of 400 concurrent users (designed to handle this max load), this profile would ramp-up beyond to determine breaking point or the max number of users (or requests) before breaking point.

```javascript
export let options = {
  stages: [
    { duration: '5m', target: 100 },
    { duration: '5m', target: 200 },
    { duration: '5m', target: 300 },
    { duration: '5m', target: 400 },
    { duration: '5m', target: 500 },
    { duration: '5m', target: 600 },
    { duration: '5m', target: 700 },
  ],
};

```

## Resources

- Getting Started: https://k6.io/docs/getting-started/resources/
- Test servers: https://k6.io/docs/getting-started/resources/#test-servers
- k6 learn: https://github.com/grafana/k6-learn
